Welcome back.
We just saw how we can use basic routes in order to direct our user to a different page and our web
application.
Now let's talk about dynamic routes which will be different routes depending on the situation.
So often we're going to want your extensions to be dynamic based on that particular situation.
A good example of this is maybe you have a web application with many users and each of those users has
a profile page.
So you're going to want the profile page Yorkhill for each particular user to be unique that we don't
have collisions based off of two users having the same your l.
So that's usually going to be in the form of something like your domain name or site name dot com slash
user slash and then that unique user name or that unique profile name to achieve this effect.
We can use dynamic routes and dynamic routes have two key aspects.
One is that the variable inside that route decorator that is the at app dot route decorator it's going
to have a variable that's going to be passed in and then that's going to sync with the parameter that's
passed into the function that the decorator is decorating.
So let's see what this actually looks like.
So here we have an example of a dynamic route.
So we have our decorators saying at apt that route and there were directing them to some page slash
and then you notice we have a dynamic aspect of this which is that name variable.
And then we're going to be able to pass that into our function.
So we have a function other page name.
And in this case we're just returning user and there were formatting that name into that user.
So when someone visits that page we're essentially going to say go to some page forward slash and then
you're going to be able to type in whatever profile name you want and the page is going to respond back
with user colon and then that profile name later on we're going to see how to use this parameter with
templates and actually passing in a request contex.
But right now this is going to be a very simple example of dynamic routing.
Main idea is to get here before we head over to the text editor.
It's just that you'll be able to pass in this variable into the function and then use it somehow.
Let's go to the text editor and show this in action.
All right.
Here we are at the text editor.
We've created our basic routing for the index or home page.
And then we have this other basic route for the information page.
Let's show you how we can create a dynamic row.
We'll start off by saying.
App dot routes or route.
And then we're going to save forward slash.
In this case is going to be puppy profiles.
So it's a puppy forward slash and then each puppy can have a name and where we're going to do is when
you visit the page puppy slash and that particular puppy's name the actual page is going to report back
that puppy's name.
And we'll call this view puppy.
It takes in that name variable that was supplied in the euro.
And then it's just going to return a head or one that says this is page 4 and they're going to use print
formatting in order to format this.
So also close off the H1 tag and they will say that format the name.
All right let's save this and then let's start our application basic PI enter and then let's bring up
our browser.
All right.
I've brought in my browser.
Keep in mind I'm very zoomed in right now.
I'm going to go forward slash and go to the information page and it says Puppies are cute.
Now let's try to use that dynamic view which was puppy.
And then we did slash and then some name.
So I'm going to come here and say puppy forward slash.
And let's just say some underscore name we enter.
You're going to get dynamic result of this is a page for some underscore name.
And what's happening here is we have this dynamic route and we're passing in this variable into our
function which in our case is just a very simple function that returns.
This is a page for and then that variable name that was passed then.
So let's make one for rufous here.
We'll say rufous enter and then this is a page for rufous.
Notice how I would be able to Ansermet function do whatever I want with this string.
I could have made it all lowercase made all uppercase and so on.
So do a quick example of that by making just a page that returns back the name passed in except it's
an all uppercase sort of come back here to our text editor and I'm going to edit this.
Of saying this is a page for that name.
I'm going to say this is
uppercase and then we're going to pass in that same name with print formatting and then call up or on
that name.
So it takes in that string it's going to uppercase it and then say uppercase and then pass that in and
Altes restart.
This will say Python basic but by bringing back my page here this is the old page we're going to refresh
this.
And now we see uppercase and notice how it's in all uppercase rufous.
So no matter what I'm passing in here even if they're all lowercase it's going to uppercase all those
letters.
So this is a very simple example if I can take in the variable that's passed then and then play around
with it inside that function.
Later on we're going to see how we can able to pass that into templates.
And as a context.
And in fact we're going to be able to pasan not just simple strings but things like dictionaries into
our templates and use them there.
All right that's it for this lecture.
We'll see what the next one.